You come back.
No let's discuss the use of equal time at the intro.
Basically when you create objects in Java.
So here I have a client class so it's basically a simple class which has an ID and a constructor accepting
that ID.
So what I'm doing here is creating two instances of these objects.
Both of these have the same value twenty five twenty five.
So the claim that they are representing is the same I would want to be able to compare these two objects
and tell that they're equal.
If you look at it here claimed one is not equal to plain two because they are two different objects.
These are the client one is one object.
This kind to is another object so these are two different objects so they are never equal.
So that's what what does is equal is equal to compare this is equal to compare.
If these two are pointing to the same objects when you use is equal is equal to.
This will be true only when both plain and plain to point to the same object.
But here they are not pointing the same object they are pointing are different objects that are never
going to be true.
However if you look at client 3 and claim to and so claim 3 is equal declined one to one object and
one is pointing to the same object in threes also pointing to that.
Basically this one.
So if you see kind one is equal do you can play in three.
This will return true because they are referring to the same object.
So that is equal is equal to but what we wanted to discuss is equals on the previous one.
So in this kind Gwynplaine thing if I do play into one that equals claim.
So if I'm going to find one that equals claim to you'd get false.
The reason is because in this particular instance of play class in this particular definition of class
in class we don't really have an equal method defined.
So if I don't have the equal better defined in a claimed class what equal does method does it use.
Think about it.
So I don't have a equals method defined here.
So where does it get the ultimate that from.
It gives the equal method from the object.
Because object class is the superclass for all classes in Java.
So it gets the definition of the equals from the object and the default definition of equals in the
Object class.
What does it do.
It just compares.
If they are pointing to the same objects what it does is the default implementation of equals in the
Object class.
We'll just see it's kind well inclined to pointing to the same object.
No they are not so it returns back false.
So that the default implementation.
But if I want to override that implementation then I can do that.
The signature for that override is down here.
So an example method is here.
So the signature is public boolean equals object or B.
There's this part of the definition that should exactly match.
I mean actually up to the Object class it up to the Object class.
Everything should match.
You can use a different readable name.
That's OK but up to here the thing should match for it demised the equals definition.
What this is now doing.
So what we are doing is we are saying if either is not equal to that Id return false or otherwise returned
true.
So none of what we would do when I do play one equals clone two we are competing B IDs so we are comparing
ID with our dog ID.
And they are both the same because language has a value.
Twenty five point two has been written in sort of comparing the object references.
Now we are comparing the values so you to an equal split into yes can I do an equals two.
Klein three yes.
So both of them will return.
So when you are pointing to the same object or when a part of the different object but having the same
value you'd get a return true.
So basically equal method is used to compare two objects.
So if I want to check if the objects has the same values or not I would need to define an equal method.
Let's quickly go to Eclipse and see how you can easily create this equal method.
I have this called Client open.
So the way I would search for this client and come in Indeed when it's Java object there is a can and
do find that.
Basically what we are pulling up now.
So now here if you look at it this has a hash code and equals method implemented.
So let's say this equal method was not there I would want to quickly implement a default equals method
here.
How do I do that I can do that by using the eclipse features.
So the way you can do that is that I click source and say generate hash code and equals we would look
at it a little later.
When we just equal.
We have to generate cash.
Good that's a good practice.
But this contains implementation of Hoshko.
I will override that.
And it took for me doright what you can define when I'm different when I'm selecting the field what
are the fields that I would need to compare in the equals method.
So if this class had been filled all the fields would be listed.
And what are fields that I would want to use in the method I would select them here.
So here there is only one field so I set the ID field and just say OK.
So now the equals method is generated.
So this equals method would work in any kind of scenarios to compare if the IDs are the same.
So if the values are same then it would return true or if the objects are the same.
It was written to say Bewdley for formant as well as be a good implementation of equals.
The reason why we should buy the equal method here is so complex is because any implementation of equals
should satisfy a few properties that reflects the.
So reflexive basically means it should be equal to itself to client one should be equal to play and
one symmetric.
So if x equal to y y should be equal to x transitive if x x equals Y and by equal and then should be
equal to Zed consistent.
So it should consistently didn't work conditionally that unfold.
It should not be like X does equal to y irritants true in one condition and false in one of the condition.
And for any reference from non null reference.
So if for example exert equals null they should always return false.
So that's basically the implementation we got generated by eclipse earlier.
So if object is null.
What would happen.
You can see that it would return or fall here.
So the first thing first check which is the equal series if they're the same object.
So if this is going to object then they are the same object return true if object is equal is equal
to none.
That basically means the paramita which you are passing in is null so return fault if they don't belong
to the same class then return false then typecast it to the specific object and compare the values that
you would want to compare.
So the thing is with equal method it should also accept other classes as instances of other classes.
So you'll be able to compare any class with any set in any object with any instance of any of that class.
So that's the reason why we would check for a class as well.
So this is all about the equals method.
The most important thing that you need to know about the equals method is the fact that it should satisfy
these five properties and the best way to generate a method which would satisfy all these properties
is generating it by eclipse.
You need to understand what's happening here.
But I would always use Eclipse to generate this method because this is when you do a bit of complex
logic you don't want to really get this wrong.
They bagle that about the equals method.
Now let's move on to the hash code method.
The hash good method is basically used in collections like hash map.
So the hash code is used to decide which bucket an object has to be placed into in a hash map kind of
collection.
So there are rules that are good hashing function should adhere to.
Basically if all if you always return the same value from a hash called what would happen then all the
values will go into the same bucket.
So the values in the hash map will not be evenly distributed.
So a hashing function what does it do.
It even redistributes objects in two different buckets.
And also there are a few properties that it needs to adhere to that basically if two objects are equals
equal then the object has scored should all be equal.
So if two objects are equal their hash courts also should be equal and obviously object or hash code
should return the same value when on multiple times.
Otherwise you'll not be able to retrieve values from a hash map.
And also if two objects are not equal.
So if two objects are not equal then it does not mean that hash caught are not equal because you'd want
to put different objects in the same bucket.
So it does not mean that object are hash when a hash code is not equal to object to that hash.
It might not be called.
It might also be equal.
We're looking at one of the hash code implementations right here.
So the most important thing about a hash code implementation is that it should evenly distribute the
objects in two different buckets.
I mean there is no hard and fast way of saying this is the way you'd be able to evenly distributed.
This would really depend on the business scenario where you're going to use the hash map work in values
that you are going to put in.
But for generating a default implementation hash code we already saw how to do that when we discussed
the equals method.
So similar to the equals method we get in it was the same thing so rightly so.
And you can say generate hash codes and equal So that's the reason why a hash code and equals go together.
So if you override equals then you have to also override hash.
Good as well.
So they look that small discussion about equals and hash.